**In Bitcoin Classic the block size is no longer limited by rules set by
software developers. It is set by you, the person running the software.**

This article explains how this works.

# Blocksize

In Bitcoin transactions are gathered in blocks which are structured in a
chain. The reason we use a chain is because of the main innovation
of Bitcoin which combines it with Proof of Work to have a global consensus
about the transactions that are accepted.

The size of this block has never been relevant to this process and we can
see that over the lifetime of Bitcoin the size of blocks has grown based
solely on the requirements of the network.

Miners have always been the ones to decide on the block size, and they have
always done this in a coordinated fashion. This is a natural consequence of
the rather elegant (economic) design of Bitcoin.

* Miners earn more fee-based income when they produce bigger blocks.
* Miners take more risk of their blocks being orphaned with bigger blocks.
* Miners want to avoid emptying the memory pool every block as that removes
  a total need for users to pay fees.
* Miners want to make sure the mempool does not become backlogged because
  users that do not see their transactions confirmed will get disappointed
  and find other means to do payments. Which hurts the price and in effect
  hurts the miners income.

This behaviour in block size means blocks will not get huge and they will
not stay small either, because there are reasons for both. And so the size
will be something in the middle.  The most correct block size is completely
dependent on
the amount of paying users and the state of technology. To get the most
profit out of the system the miners will have to find a market-equilibrium
for the block size. That market equilibrium happens to be the best for
all players in Bitcoin.

Classic will put the user-selected (or default) block size limit in the
coinbase message in the form "EB2" where the number is the amount of
megabytes this node accepts.  
Similarly, the user-agent string send to peers on the handshake will have
this comment so sites that connect to all peers can get an idea of what is
supported.

## The solution

Bitcoin Classic has removed the 1MB centrally planned maximum block size
limits from its software and gives tools to the miners and users to protect
themselves from malicious actors at the same time. We call that the
**accept limit**.

The main change is that a Bitcoin Classic node can now be configured
manually to have any block size limit.

First there is the new `blocksizeacceptlimit` config setting that
allows a user to limit blocks by size they will accept from the
network. For instance if the user would set `blocksizeacceptlimit=4.2` this
states that any block over 4.2MB is rejected as too large.

The old config option `blockmaxsize` is unchanged and this is the option
that miners set to determine the maximum block size they would create.

The additional change is that Bitcoin Classic creates block templates for
miners which put the blocksizeacceptlimit value in the coinbase comment.
This has the effect that a miner's limits are stored in the blockchain and
for everyone available to see.  Any miner can check the blockchain and find
out what a safe blockmaxsize setting will get his blocks accepted by other
miners. But ultimately we expect miners to have a global conversation, in
any forum that works for them, about the block size they will all use.

## Additional safety measures

With the introduction of a more soft size limit, one that is no longer
centrally planned by software developers but instead based on local
configuration, we see an opportunity to introduce an extra fail-safe in
rare situations where a node has settings slightly different than the rest
of the world.

This safety measure is still in research and the initial results have been
that block size limits are a bit more flexible interpreted if there are
more miners that vote for this block size with their hashpower. This makes
the network more robust and makes users and miners that run Bitcoin Classic
be able to recover and get back onto the main chain in rare situations
where a block is found that is larger than expected.

It is important to stress that this feature is *made possible* due to the
flexible size limit, but just because it is now possible to protect against
scenarios that could always happen does not mean we believe that the user
configurable size limit will cause problems that need fixing.

This safety measure is currently still under development and is introduced
on Toms blog [here](https://zander.github.io/posts/Blocksize%20Consensus/)

