# Double Spend Proofs

In a normal merchant / customer setting, the customer creates a transaction
that he then gives to the merchant. Either directly, or via the Bitcoin
network.
Upon receiving that transaction the merchant will be able to acknowledge
and store it allowing the customer to leave.

This means the merchant trust in a zero-confirmation setting where the
merchant keeps a copy of the transaction and will keep feeding it to the
network until it confirms. This works out just fine in the vast majority of
cases.

The customer, however, may have set up some custom software and immediately
after sending the proper transaction to the network, he sends another
transaction to a friendly miner.
This transaction double-spends the money he initially sent to the merchant.

The way that Bitcoin nodes work is that they will reject transactions that
double spend, and keep the original transaction in the memory pool. With
5000 nodes this means that if the transactions are send close enough to
each other, a segment will think the first and another segment will think
the second transaction is the "proper" transaction.

The merchant then has a non-zero chance of losing his payment if the
customer's second transaction is the one that gets confirmed.

## Isn't zero-confirmation too risky to use?

As we see above, zero-confirmation is not a guarantee. It has more risk
than having the payment in the blockchain.

In fact, the amount of risk drops based on the amount of confirmations
there are. Which is counted in the amount of blocks mined since your
transaction was included.

So what we can see is that the amount of risk that the payment does not go
through is reduced over time. In an ideal world everyone would wait 6
confirmations for any transaction before they call it 'done'.

Merchants and people don't think that black/white and especially businesses
know that there is always a risk involved, no matter what you do. In actual
fact the amount of risk of a transaction not reaching him is significantly
lower in any Bitcoin scenario than it is if, for instance, Visa or
Mastercard was used.

## How can we solve this?

We solve the problem by reducing the risk. A merchant that accepts
zero-confirmation transactions will always have some risk. A purchase of
very high worth should not consider zero-conf. The goal is to make the $20
payments safe enough.

What [[Flexible Transactions]] adds is a fraud-proof for double-spending.
Any node, and specifically merchant software, can use this as a way to
alert the network of an attempt at double spending.

The important part here is that not anyone can just generate a
double-spending alert. If we allowed that there would be a big possibility
of abuse and a large amount of false-positives that could overwhelm us.

The double-spending-**proof** is created by taking the two transactions
that are both spending the same money and taking only relevant sub-sections
which we then forward to our peers. Specifically the one we just received
the second transaction from.

This proof includes the relevant signatures from the two transactions and
so any node can independently validate that the proof is valid.
If it has one of the two transactions in its mempool it will then forward
it to its peers.

The customer in our example above, who tried to get away without paying
from our merchant, will send his two transactions in a very small
time-frame. As the transactions go through all 5000 nodes of the Bitcoin
network, they will meet somewhere in the middle and the double-spend-proof
will go in opposite direction notifying all nodes of this attempt.

The ultimate goal is that the merchant will receive this double-spend proof
as well and he will likely do in one or two seconds after the transaction
itself arrived.  This allows the merchant to take action in any way that he
sees fit.
