# Flexible Transactions

[[!toc levels=2 startlevel=2]]

A very central part of Bitcoin is the transaction. Everything you do in
Bitcoin will essentially use or depend on Bitcoin transactions.

In the original Bitcoin 0.1 release Satoshi Nakamoto included a design that
is a very good indication of his intentions for the future. He included a
version field for transactions. This means that we can cleanly upgrade the
transaction format by creating a new version. People can then choose on
creation if they want to use the new or the old format.

The old format has run out of place to add new features, it has accumulated
lots of not very clean hacks to make it continue working. New
features can not be added in any safe way. It is time to look for a new
format that we can use for decades to come.

Flexible Transactions is that format, it has the version number '4' and it
has been designed and programmed in Bitcoin Classic by Tom Zander. It
solves a long list of problems that have eluded solution for years and it
has been designed with future growth in mind. Flexible Transactions
allows future upgrades to be done in a much clearer and controlled
fashion making this stepping stone for cleaner and faster development
which will hold your coins value safe.

Flexible Transactions is still under developement and can not be used on
main-net yet. However, it is feature complete and being tested.
Bitcoin Classic is the main client with support included in version 1.2
and later.

There are two flags you can pass on the command-line to enable it;
`--testnet-ft` switches the client to a testnet mode, specifically one that
is for testing flexible transactions. If you need some coin, send an email
to Tom with a testnet-ft bitcoin address.

Additionally there is the `-flextrans` option that explicitly enables
v4 transactions parsing, relaying etc. You don't want to use this option on
the main chain, but using it on the regtest testing chain is perfectly
fine.

When you enabled FlexTrans, you will notice that the RPC command
`createrawtransaction` will allow you to pass the transaction version and
it will return a FlexTrans encoded transaction if you pass version 4.
Similarly, the `signrawtransaction` will support signing of those
transactions.

## Bitcoin issues fixed by Flexible Transactions

* Malleability ([[more|Malleability]])
* Linear scaling of signature checking ([[more|Quadratic hashing]])
* Hardware wallet support (proofs) ([[more|Hardware Wallet Support]])
* Very flexible future extensibility
* [[Double Spend Proofs]]
* Makes transactions smaller
* Supports the Lightning Network
* Support future Scripting version increase

## Background

Flexible Transactions is maybe best explained by watching this video where
Tom explains the technology in a simple way for all audiences.

<iframe src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/193595931" width="445"
height="250" frameborder="0"></iframe>

Additionally useful may be the [[FlexTrans-vs-SegWit]] page.

## Test application

For users and developers that want to parse the relatively abstract binary
datastream which make up bitcoin transactions there is a good test
application that Bitcoin Classic made available for free to
[[github|https://github.com/bitcoinclassic/transactions]]

This application allows you to;

* read any transaction and print its contents.
* convert any transaction into the FlexTrans markup so you can test parsers.
* read FlexTrans transactions and print warnings encountered during parsing.

The application depends on QtCore being available on the system it is
being compiled on.

## Language Bindings

The parsing of the transaction is really not that hard, and made really
easy with the language bindings that are stored in the
[[transactions|https://github.com/bitcoinclassic/transactions]] git
repository. The general approach is that there is a `MessageParser`
and a `MessageBuilder` class. If you want to create a transaction you
use the MessageBuilder and you add all the individual components using
a very simple API.

There currently are language bindings for

* [[C#|https://github.com/bitcoinclassic/transactions/tree/master/support/C%23]]
* [[C++Qt|https://github.com/bitcoinclassic/transactions/tree/master/support/cppQt]]
* [[Java|https://github.com/bitcoinclassic/transactions/tree/master/support/java]]

## Specification

Flexible Transactions is a schema based on the
Compact Message Format low level binary serialization.

The CMF system is based on name/format/value tokens which are encoded with
the aim to have the smallest resulting files.

The specification for CMF can be found
[[here|https://github.com/bitcoinclassic/documentation/blob/master/spec/compactmessageformat.md]].

The specification for FlexTrans can be found
[[here|https://github.com/bitcoinclassic/documentation/blob/master/spec/transactionv4.md]]

Additionally, the
[[proposal|https://lists.linuxfoundation.org/pipermail/bitcoin-dev/2016-September/013125.html]]
to the Bitcoin community has been made in the form of a BIP. Which can be found
[[here|https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0134.mediawiki]].
