# Transaction Malleability

Malleability is a problem that has been in Bitcoin for many years, it is
well known and it is not too hard to make sure a business can't loose money
over this. The problem really should get fixed, though, as it is a rather
embarrassing issue.

The high level problem is this;  
A user can create a transaction, which she signs and sends off to the
network in order to get mined. Transactions get automatically assigned a
transaction-ID. To uniquely identify that transaction. This assignment is
done in a smart way such that the ID is assigned based on the content. This
way we avoid having to ask a central server to give unique IDs.

There is a way to change the transaction slightly so it still is a valid
transaction that correctly moves money as the original author intended and
doesn't break the signatures either.  This is called the malleability
issue. The small change will have as an effect that the transaction-ID
changes, as its based on slightly different content now.

The result is that a company sending a transaction can not be certain that
his transaction will have the same ID from the moment is was created to
when it finally gets mined in a block.

MtGox claimed that this was a reason they lost funds where users would
complain a transfer from the company to them never arrived and the exchange
would only check the transaction ID having been mined.

A simple fix is to avoid address reuse and check balances on addresses
instead.

# Lightning Network

There is ongoing research into a framework that uses Bitcoin transactions
in a rather interesting way. It allows 2 users or even a group to use
low-trust hubs and exchange promises of Bitcoin transactions with each
other. This allows a person to make many payments which get compressed
into one transaction (settled) on the real Bitcoin chain.

This system would, however, be very vulnerable to the malleability issue
and cheating would become much easier for some parties.

# How can you malleate a transaction?

Quite technical, Feel free to skip to the solution below.

A Bitcoin transaction of version 1 defines that the transaction-ID is
calculated by taking the entire content of the transaction and hashing it.

On the other hand, the thing that protects a transaction from being
modified after the fact are signatures that are created for each input.
These signatures ignore parts of the transaction. And exactly the
difference in what is used for the Transaction ID and what is used for
signing an input is where the malleability comes from.

During signing of an input the signatures of all inputs are removed because
of the cryptographic truism that signatures can't be part of the thing
that is signed.

In adding a signature in Bitcoin 2 things are added. First the amount of
bytes that the signature takes, then the actual signature.  Both of these
pieces of information are removed for signing but used for creating the
transaction ID.

The trick here is that we can add some dummy data, or we can encode the
length in different ways that mean the same thing. 120 bytes is the same
thing as 0120 bytes. But the latter is encoded differently. And thus
creates a different transaction ID.

# How does Flexible Transactions fix this?

The solution is rather simple and elegant, we removed the imbalance
between what is used to sign a transaction and what is used to create a
transaction ID.

The way to do this is that FlexTrans simply removes from the body of the
transaction the entire set of data that is the input-script (aka signature
data).

This is done by physically moving the signatures to the end of the
transaction data-structure and defining that the 'body' of the transaction
is the one to be signed and that the 'body' is to be used to create the
transaction-id.

This same solution also solves the [[Quadratic Hashing]] issue.

For more technical information, see the
[[specification|https://github.com/bitcoinclassic/documentation/blob/master/spec/transactionv4.md]].
