# Roadmap. Long term (5+ years).

[[!toc levels=2]]

## Goals

### 1 Protocol documentation

Bitcoin as a whole is something we often call a protocol. But unlike most
protocols, there is preciously little documentation out there that
describes in detail what actually goes over the wire and what actually is
the reason a transaction stores numeric values in 3 different ways.

**The first goal is to move towards a Bitcoin that is fully documented.**
The point here is that the documentation of the protocol is to be
'leading'. So if there are two implementations that disagree, the
protocol-documentation is the one that is right. This avoids fluffy
arguments like who has the biggest market share or who has been around
longest as those somehow being more right.

### 2 Backwards compatibility of protocol

Parts of the current Bitcoin protocol were designed without keeping in mind
industry best practices. For many parts this is not a big deal, but some
those best practices were there for a very good reason. A good example is
that practically all of the data structures in the Bitcoin protocol are not
changeable. It is impossible to add a value to a p2p message, you can't
remove an unused variable that is stored in each and every transaction.

**The second goal is to move towards tagged protocol data-structures**.
The idea of tagged data goes back decades, well before Bitcoin was created.
The point here is that we know mistakes have been made and will continue to
be made by humans extending and fixing Bitcoin. For this reason we need the
ability to cleanly make backwards compatible changes. Adding a new field in
an existing p2p message is much cleaner than having to create an entire new
message-type with all the same info, plus one item.

Note; *The basic concepts of Bitcoin are sane and sound*, we should not change
those!

### 3 Access to blockchain as a database

Bitcoin as an industry depends on the blockchain as the universal database
that everyone shares and uses. The main property of a database is that it
can provide fast access to the information you seek. A normal database
would be able to return all transactions since a certain date, as a quick
example.

Unfortunately the blockchain in any full node has data-access methods that
are quite primitive and very very slow, making the blockchain essentially
private data. This means that block explorers end up having to re-create
a full database. Research of usage patterns and many properties are limited
to a few that have plenty of patience.

**The third goal is to move towards a full node that provides full access
to Bitcoin, including its database**.
The simple access of the raw data is something that can be made
substantially faster and it opens the node to being much more useful for a
large range of features.


## Implementation

### 1 Creating a spec, or creating a spec.

The current state of affairs in Bitcoin is that the C++ codebase is the
reference implementation. Which is a fancy way of saying that all bugs in
that codebase are part of the protocol. This is not an acceptable way of
running things and this stops alternative implementations from appearing.
Having alternative implementations would be wonderful for the stability of
the coin and the ecosystem as a whole.

The idea to document the current codebase has been raised before and
dismissed as impractical. A good example of why it is indeed impractical is
the OOXML spec that documents the Microsoft Office format. It is some 7000
pages and many parts are still incomplete and can not be re-implemented from
it.
Tom Zander was a co-author of the Open Document Specification that is a
direct competitor of OOXML and the spec was 600 pages (less than 10%) and
multiple implementations were created based on it.

In Bitcoin the best chance of success for creating a spec is to do this in
a way that we replace various questionably pieces by new technology that is
designed to have a specification written to accompany it. Ideally we even
have multiple compatible implementations before we finalise the spec and
make it part of Bitcoin.

This high level goal then turns into various more low level goals which are
explained in the next parts.

### 2. Introducing Compact Message Format (CMF)

The CMF is a format that can be easily explained as a binary version of
XML because it shares all the ideas we were looking for because they are
lacking in Bitcoin right now.

* People can add new tokens to a data-structure that are just ignored by
  old implementations. It won't break them.
* Removing old data or omitting data that is not relevant is supported.
* name-spacing is supported which allows a universal format that can be
  build on creating many individual data-formats, they even can be mixed in
  the same blob.
* One parser can be used for all data-types and that means we can create a
  default parser that people can choose to use for their purpose. People
  don't need to understand the format to use it.

After looking at various known formats we choose to base the format on
protocol-buffers, but instead of using this external application it turned
out to be very simple and to avoid risk of depending on an upstream project
the Compact Message Format was born as an independent implementation.


To reach our goal the format is just a vehicle. A base layer that we can
build on top of.
**The basic concepts of Bitcoin are sane and sound**, we should not change
those. The way they are expressed in practice is something that should be
questioned. A good example is the transaction format which is not
extensible, it actually has various fields that are repeated in every
transaction without change, because its impossible to remove unused fields.
For this reason [[Flexible Transactions]] was introduced, it is build on
top of the CMF.

There are various other parts of Bitcoin that would benefit from the same
redesign to use tagged formats. The main and most obvious one is the p2p
messages. The point here is to keep in mind that goal of documentation as
well as remaining practical. If a structure doesn't need extending, then
don't replace it. The quality of the result is top priority.


### 3. Creating an Admin Server

The C++ full nodes currently have 2 ways to access the data from it. One is
a HTTP based RPC interface which communicates with JSON messages.

The second is the zeromq interface that is used to send out notifications
for things like a new block coming in.

This choice of technologies is quite unfortunate because sending a 1MB
block over HTTP + JSON is a painful process. Especially if you consider
that the system closes the connection after every request (REST).

The first step towards solving this has been started already and the
high-level documentation is written down on the [[AdminServer]] page. What
this new code accomplishes is that applications can connect and get data
out of the full node various magnitudes faster than before. It also allows
both the API as well as the events being pushed over the same connection,
using the same protocol (which is based on CMF).

Currently the only real data structure we can share over the RPC is the
full block. It is impossible to ask for any specific transaction because
the node doesn't keep an index of all past transactions. It has the option
to create that index, though.

A simple way to solve this is that the RPC method to retrieve a transaction
would gain an argument that indicates which block it is in. This avoids the
full node having to keep an index and can speed up the fetching of single
transactions where now we just return the transaction instead of the entire
raw block that contains the transaction.

The usage of CMF here is again the reuse of technologies. Requesting a
transaction using a CMF based message gives you a CMF reply which embeds a
binary blob that, when parsed, is also CMF formatted. This idea is again
borrowed from XML where nesting of subtrees is also possible.


## Join the Bitcoin Classic community

Do these goals align with what you are looking for in Bitcoin? Please
consider joining us. Running the client, sending an email when you find a
typo or simply sharing your story on reddit are great ways to start.
Read the [[community]] page for many more ways to join this exciting
movement.
